gh-115243: Fix crash in deque.index() when the deque is concurrently modified (#115247)
python/cpython: Misc/NEWS.d/next/Security/2024-02-12-00-33-01.gh-issue-115243.e1oGX8.rst

> Fix possible crashes when operating with the functions in the :func:`deque.index`and custom comparison operators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fix possible crashes in :func:`deque.index` when calling
:c:func:`PyObject_RichCompareBool`.

```

Reviewer 2: I suggest to revert this change. The original wording was more correct.

It has nothing with `PyObject_RichCompareBool` (it is not the only C API for comparison, and you can trigger a crash from Python code).

Author: In Python, `deque.index` invokes `PyObject_RichCompareBool` in C code. Subsequently, `PyObject_RichCompareBool` calls the object's `__eq__` method in Python. However, I am unsure which explanation is clearer. If the goal is to eliminate the mention of `PyObject_RichCompareBool` because `deque.index` always calls it, then the suggestion you provided would indeed be clearer

Reviewer 2: It is an implementation detail. The common Python user does not call `PyObject_RichCompareBool()`, and can be affected by the bug.

How this bug affects Python users?

If `deque.index()` is called and _simultaneously_ (in other thread, in garbage collector) the same deque is modified, the result is an undefined behavior, possibly crash. You only need to use `deque.index()` and modify the deque simultaneously. Please describe the effect of this change in terms of the visible behavior change in Python code.

Reviewer: Serhiy is right. Also, I remember same wording for the same change: 2d5bf568eaa5059402ccce9ba5a366986ba27c8a

Author: If `this change` refers to my patched code, I believe it will be safe. This is because the issue of use-after-free arises within the inner code of `PyObject_RichCompareBool`, specifically after the object's reference count has been incremented

> Fix possible crashes in :func:`deque.index` when calling
> :c:func:`PyObject_RichCompareBool`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Fix possible crashes in :meth:`collections.deque.index` when the deque is concurrently modified.
```
